---
layout: post
title: Animal Crossing Socks
subtitle: Lab 2
cover-img: /assets/img/Socks Background.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/SocksLogo.jpg
tags: [socks,labs]
---

Before finding the socks with the most variations and the number of socks of each color, I first had to obtain the data from the API. To make the request from the API, I provided the base url with the specific endpoint for the socks and then provided the two required parameters. From the API documentation provided, the two parameters required to make a request from the API are my unique passkey, IzzyArtOfDataKEY123ABCsecret, and the index of the sock. I then used a for loop to make a request for each of the 364 socks. For each request from the API, I pulled information for both the variations and colors problem to minimize API requests and decrease run time.

The socks with the most variations are the argyle crew socks, color-blocked socks, frilly knee-high socks, holey tights, kiddie socks, mixed-tweed socks, no-show socks, semi-opaque socks, semi-opaque tights, sequin leggings, simple-accent socks, striped socks, striped tight, tube socks, ultra no-show socks, vivid leggings, vivid socks, and vivid tights. Each of these socks has 8 variations. In order to find this information, I created a dictionary that would hold all of the sock names as keys and the number of socks of that name as the value. For each sock, I checked if that sock name already had a dictionary entry and then added 1 to the count. After creating the dictionary, I first used a for loop to find the greatest number of variations, which is 8. Here is my original code:

{% highlight python linenos %}
mostvar_count = 0

# Find the greatest number of varieties
for sockname in allvariations:
   if allvariations[sockname] > mostvar_count:
       mostvar_count = allvariations[sockname]
{% endhighlight %}

After I wrote this code, I was curious if there was a simpler way to find the maximum number, perhaps by using the max function, but I wasn’t sure how that would work with dictionaries. I then found [this source](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwis4pLaw_OCAxUVv4kEHR6sDGYQFnoECBIQAw&url=https%3A%2F%2Fnote.nkmk.me%2Fen%2Fpython-dict-value-max-min%2F%23%3A~%3Atext%3Dmatch%252C%2520etc.)-%2CGet%2520the%2520maximum%252Fminimum%2520value%2520of%2520a%2520dictionary%2Ca%2520view%2520of%2520its%2520values.%26text%3DBy%2520passing%2520this%2520to%2520the%2Cminimum%2520values%2520of%2520the%2520dictionary.&usg=AOvVaw0AP0E7M0baGOve4RMCRP6p&opi=89978449) and I used this method instead. Then I used one final for loop to add the socks with the maximum number of variations to a list to print.

For the second problem, I found that the color breakdown for the socks is:
Pink: 44
Red: 43
Aqua: 33
Orange: 28
Purple: 39
Green: 51
Blue: 48
Yellow: 34
White: 89
Black: 65
Beige: 16
Gray: 33
Brown: 11
Colorful: 14
The code I wrote for this problem involved creating a dictionary with the color as the key and the number of socks of that color as the value. For each sock, I first checked if either of the colors (color 1 or 2) were in the dictionary and added the color if the answer was no. Then if color 1 and color 2 were not the same, I added 1 to the running count value for each color. If the colors were the same, I just added 1 to the running count of that color.
